Practice Session -1

Task:1
1.	Create variables of different data types, such as integer, float, string, and boolean.
2.	Print each variable along with its data type.
Example Output:
Integer: 10, Type: <class 'int'>
Float: 20.5, Type: <class 'float'>
String: Hello World, Type: <class 'str'>
Boolean: True, Type: <class 'bool'>

Task:2
1.	Define a variable, assign it any value, and print it.
2.	Delete the variable using the del keyword.
3.	Try printing the variable after deletion and observe the error.
Example Output:

Before deletion: This variable will be deleted
After deletion: NameError: name 'temp_var' is not defined

Task:3
1.	Use the help("keywords") function to display Python's reserved keywords.
2.	Print out this list.

Task:4
1.	Create two numeric variables, a and b, with any values.
2.	Perform the following operations and print the results:
•	Addition
•	Subtraction
•	Multiplication
•	Division
•	Modulus
•	Exponentiation
•	Floor division
Example Output:
Addition: 15
Subtraction: 5
Multiplication: 50
Division: 2.0
Modulus: 0
Exponentiation: 100000
Floor Division: 2

Task:5
1.	Create two string variables, str1 and str2, and assign any values.
2.	Concatenate these two strings using the + operator and print the result.

Concatenated String: HelloWorld

Task:6
1.	Define a variable name with your name as its value.
2.	Print the variable using three different methods:
•	Using the print() function directly.
•	Using an f-string.
•	Using .format() method.
Example Output:
Using print(): My name is John
Using f-string: My name is John
Using .format(): My name is John

Task:7
1.	Prompt the user to enter their favorite color.
2.	Store the input in a variable and print a message saying "Your favorite color is [color]."
Example Output:

Enter your favorite color: Blue
Your favorite color is Blue

Task:8
1.	Ask the user to input a number as a string.
2.	Convert this input to an integer and print the result along with its type.
3.	Try converting it to a float and print the result with its type.
Example Output:

Enter a number: 25
Integer: 25, Type: <class 'int'>
Float: 25.0, Type: <class 'float'>

Task:9
1.	Ask the user for their first name, last name, and age.
2.	Concatenate the first name and last name into a single string.
3.	Print a greeting message using the concatenated name and age, using an f-string for formatting.
Example Output:
Enter your first name: John
Enter your last name: Doe
Enter your age: 30
Hello, John Doe! You are 30 years old.

Task: 10
Write a program that demonstrates the use of identity operators (is, is not).
1.	Define two variables, a and b, and assign them the same integer value.
2.	Use is and is not to check if a and b reference the same object in memory.
3.	Print the results of each comparison.

Task:11
 Create a program that demonstrates the usage of bitwise operators.
1.	Define two integers, a and b, with values of your choice.
2.	Perform the following bitwise operations and print the results:
•	AND (&)
•	OR (|)
•	XOR (^)
•	NOT (~)
•	Left Shift (<<)
•	Right Shift (>>)

Task:12
Write a program that takes a student's marks as input and determines the grade based on the following criteria:
•	A: Marks greater than or equal to 90
•	B: Marks between 80 and 89
•	C: Marks between 70 and 79
•	D: Marks between 60 and 69
•	F: Marks below 60
Task 13

Write a program that asks for a person's age and checks if they are eligible to vote. The voting age is 18 or above.

Task 14
Write a program that takes three numbers as input and prints the largest of the three.

Task 15
Write a program that takes a number as input and checks if it falls within a specified range. For example, check if the number is between 10 and 50 (inclusive).

Task 16
Write a program that takes two words as input and checks if they are equal.

Task 17
Write a program that checks if a student is eligible for admission to a specific course. The criteria for eligibility are:
•	The student must have scored at least 80% in math and 70% in science.
•	Or they must have a total average score of at least 75%.

Task 18
Write a program to simulate a login system. It should check if:
•	The entered username matches the stored username and
•	The entered password matches the stored password.

Task 19
Write a program that checks if a person is eligible to drive. The criteria are:
•	The person must be at least 18 years old and have a valid driver's license.

Task 20
Write a program that takes two values from the user. Check if:
•	Both values are positive or if both values are negative.
•	If they are mixed (one positive and one negative), print "Mixed signs".

Task 21
Write a program that takes the name of a day as input and checks if it's a weekend. If the day is "Saturday" or "Sunday", print "It's the weekend!". Otherwise, print "It's a weekday".
